The code camp allows existing NeXus developers to meet and work together on developing software or resolving particular NeXus design issues. 

See [[NIAC2014]] for administrative details about this meeting.

== Planned Schedule (subject to change) ==

[[File:2014-CodeCamp-Schedule-MTW.png|600px]]

== Topics to be Considered ==

A subset will be chosen on the first day of the meeting.

Walk through
* [https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues Issues] posted on the [https://github.com/nexusformat NeXus GitHub] repository
* Proposals and other topics listed on the [[Discussions]] page
* Close issues that are of minor importance and not of particular concern to anybody and not likely to be resolved any soon.

Choose topics from the preliminary list below:
* Procedural questions:
** How to organize proposals and discussions
** How to remove ballast, when to break compatibility, versioning and validation
* Fundamental design issues:
** Clarify rank specification
*** related to [https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/266 #266]: implement difference in rules between base classes and application definitions
** Discuss [[Objects or Interfaces|NeXus interfaces]]
** [[How to avoid name clashes during future extensions of the Nexus standard]]
** Optional contents in application definitions?
** Discuss lightweight tags versus application definitions
** Rules for multi file NeXus files
* Class specifications:
** NXformula?
** NXdata: Assigning axes to data once more again
** Prepare contributed definitions for ratification
* Work on software:
** validation tools (nxvalidate or NXvalidate): state (cf [https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/169 #169/defs], [https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/251 #251/defs], [https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/300 #300/defs], [https://github.com/nexusformat/code/issues/363 #363/code]), further development, WWW service, use of NeXpy/Python-API for validation
** New NAPI release?
** [https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/230 #230]: use cmake to build Sphinx documentation
* Finish support for attribute arrays (who proposed this? please provide details!)
* Off-site excursion to -tba-

== Agenda ==
{|  align="center" border="1"
|-
! &nbsp;   || *Monday* || *Tuesday* || *Wednesday*
|-
! 9:00-10:00
| Review   ||    ||    
|-
! 10:00-10:30 
| Coffee   
| Coffee   
| Coffee   
|-
! 10:30-12:00   
| Cansas<br>Axes<BR>Error ||    ||    
|-
! 12:00-13:00    
|  Lunch   
|  Lunch   
|  Lunch   
|-
! 13:00-15:00    
| DECTRIS,<BR> NXmx etc 
|    
|    
|-
! 15-15:30    
|  Coffee  
|  Coffee  
|  Coffee  
|-
!  15:30-18:00  
| MXmx,<BR> when time smaller issues 
|    
|    
|}        



=== Wednesday ===

* public talk: ''Current State of HDF5'', Elena Pourmal, The HDF Group, location: 401/A1100