== NIAC meeting - October 2008 ==

The next meeting of the [[NIAC|NeXus International Advisory Committee]] will be held at [http://www.rydges.com/hotel/0/RNCRON/Rydges-Cronulla-Sydney.htm Rydges Cronulla Beach Hotel] in [http://www.sydneyaustralia.com/en/ Sydney Australia] on October 30-31, 2008. This is a satellite meeting of the [http://www.nbi.ansto.gov.au/cgi-bin/nobugs2008/overview.ws3 NOBUGS 2008] conference.

==Conference Fee==

There will be a conference fee of AUS$130 to pay for food and the venue.

==List of Attendees==

If you are interested in attending (and not already on the [[NIAC2008_attendees|list of attendees]]), contact [[User:Nick Hauser|Nick Hauser]].

==Proposed Agenda==

=== Timetable ===
(Topics have not yet been scheduled)

=== Discussion Items ===
==== General Business ====
* Welcome and Introduction 
* Review of [[NIAC2007_Minutes|NIAC'2007HMI minutes]]
** [[NIACActionItems|NIAC Action Items]]
** [http://trac.nexusformat.org/definitions/report/3 Open tickets]
* [[Membership Dates|Renew members]]
* Elect chair, executive secretary, and technical committee chair
* Roadmap for NeXus

==== Instrument definitions ====
* Should we store pixel corners rather than centres?

==== XML schema definitions ====
* Objective: why schema? - validation, tools e.g. IDE. Informative session. 
* Pros and cons of xsd and rng
* Review of [[Schema|current work]]. (Overview)
* Vote on use of xsd.
* schema as a path to O-O NeXus

==== Reduced data storage ====
* [http://www.smallangles.net/wgwiki/index.php/cansas1d_documentation review of canSAS 1-D v1.0 XML data format] for reduced Small-Angle Scattering data.
** Objective
** Why not use NeXus?
** How to merge/nudge community towards NeXus?
** Next steps
*** 2-D and higher-dimensionality '''reduced''' data sets
*** How to standardize storage of results from data analysis steps and provenance
* Is the next big priority after schema to provide reduced data formats for all instrument classes?
* Proposal for storage of reduced data by the [http://www.mantidproject.org/ Mantid project] (see [[Media:MantidNexusWorkspaceFormat.pdf|MantidNeXusWorkspaceFormat]])

==== CIF ====
* presentation by James Hester on lessons learned from CIF standardisation

==== Tech Group Breakout ====
* review minutes/decision of last NIAC and [[Technical_Subcommittee|tech teleconferences]]
* Features for NeXus API 4.3
* XML schema review and implementation
* Review [http://trac.nexusformat.org/code/report/3 open tickets]
* Python binding
* C++ bindings
* "Object oriented" NeXus
* Review Darren Kelly's latest work. Provide feedback to Darren.

==== Documentation breakout ====
* review minutes/decision of last NIAC 
* ACTION (from 2007 NIAC): How is the offline documentation produced?
* Is the proposed system of a snapshot of relevant mediawiki pages into DocBook at the time of a definition release acceptable? 
* Discuss issues with mediawiki to DocBook converter
* Decide which mediawiki pages are required in DocBook format e.g. do we include the FAQ page?
* Is there documentation that is uniquely offline or online? This will become clearer with the mapping in the previous item
* should the representation of the base classes in the appendices be UML and/or table version?
* html to DocBook transform post processing - are these steps acceptable? 
** documentation transformed from mediawiki to DocBook, edited where necessary, chapters concatenated, and converted to pdf
** pdf bundled with napi release and versions available at [[Download]]